AfriForum has opened a corruption case against ANC Youth League leader Julius Malema following City Press’s report on Malema’s secret trust fund. A complaint was laid against him in accordance with the Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act of 2004, the organisation’s CEO Kallie Kriel told reporters outside the Brooklyn police station in Pretoria today. The act deals with corrupt activities relating to receiving or offering of unauthorised gratification. “If a person’s lifestyle is (disproportionate) to a known income, then it warrants an investigation. We want police to have a look at it,” he said. “We can’t have people that use political contacts to enrich themselves at the cost of the poor.” He denied that the organisation had a grudge against him. “If this is seen to be a grudge, so be it ... This is in the public interest. Justice should prevail,” he said. The ANC’s Brian Sokutu reiterated that Malema’s “private life remains private”. “If he had broken the law, we would certainly be concerned. He is neither a member of parliament nor a government official and it is therefore not unethical for him to be involved in any form of business.” Said Kriel: “He must be held criminally accountable in a court of law if these allegations are true. “It would be scandalous if someone like Malema – who boasts that he represents the poor people – is found guilty of looting the treasury to enrich himself at the expense of service delivery to poor people.” The Democratic Alliance said it would write to Public Protector Thuli Madonsela, requesting her to investigate the latest allegations levelled against Malema. “It most certainly is in the public interest to know whether political leaders are involved in corrupt, self-serving practices that promote the interests of a privileged few while the greater majority of South Africans continue to live in poverty, said the party’s Dianne Kohler Barnard.Meanwhile, AfriForum said it would monitor the police investigation to ensure that nothing is “swept under the carpet”. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  