Skhumbuzo Miya NATIONAL Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and Cosatu central executive committee (CEC) member Cedric Gina urged members of the federation who are disillusioned with the ANC’s election candidates’ nomination process to still cast their vote for the ANC on the May 18 local government election. Gina was addressing hundreds of Cosatu members at the union’s KZN provincial May Day celebrations held at Harry Gwala stadium yesterday. In his keynote address Gina assured the ANC that Cosatu will not support independent candidates and that their allegiance in the coming elections is still with the ANC as per the 2009 Cosatu congress resolution. “After a wide range of complaints over the ANC’s nomination process, the ANC president last week said the ANC will appoint a team from Luthuli House [the ANC headquarters] to investigate all those who were nominated illegitimately. “Zuma promised that even when those illegitimate candidates are already councillors, the ANC will remove them and if they are ward councillors, by-elections will be held. We have no reasons not to believe that the president will do as promised hence we request our members to vote for the ANC …” Gina also told the workers that the federation will continue to wage war against labour brokers as they are exploiting the workers and compromising workers’ rights gained during the liberation struggle. ANC’s head of policy, Justice Minister Jeff Radebe, who spoke on behalf of the ANC, assured Cosatu that the ANC will never abandon workers “as we want to continue to fight for workers’ rights and to ensure that we don’t only attain political freedom but economic freedom”. Member of the SACP CEC Eric “Stalin” Mtshali said no matter how angry the SACP could be it will never abandon the alliance and committed the SACP to the struggle for workers’ rights. The provincial celebrations were also addressed by KZN ANC chairperson, Premier Zweli Mkhize, secretary-general of the South African National Civics Organisation (Sanco) Skhumbuzo Mpanza as well as KZN Cosatu chairperson Chris Ndlela, who is also an ANC candidate in Msunduzi in the coming elections. Popular South African artists including kwaMashu gospel outfit Avante, maskandi musicians Phuzekhemisi and Mfiliseni Magubane entertained the crowd. However, the celebrations, billed to start at 9 am started three hours late, which led to tripartite alliance leaders being booed by the bored workers.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.